yakuake-session - A script to create new yakuake sessions from command-line.
Copyright 2010 Jesús Torres <aplatanado@gulic.org>


What is yakuake-session?
------------------------

yakuake-session is a Bash script that allows to create new sessions in Yakuake
terminal emulator from command line. I made it mainly to get a better
integration of Yakuake in KDE desktop environment. For example, thanks to it
Yakuake can replace Konsole in "Open terminal here" action in Dolphin or we
can setup a menu similar to Konsole Profiles widget but using Yakuake instead
of Konsole.


Usage
-----

The yakuake-session script should to be copied to ~/bin, /usr/local/bin or
some other directory in $PATH variable, if we want to avoid indicating the
path of the script when invoked.

$ yakuake-session

Without arguments, yakuake-session creates a new session in the currently
running Yakuake terminal emulator. The option -e allows to indicate a command
to execute in the new session.

$ yakuake-session -e ls

If the command requires some arguments, they are taken from non-option
arguments passed to yakuake-session. That means that if some arguments for the
command begin with '-', they must passed to yakuake-session after '--'.

$ yakuake-session -e ssh -- -X user@example.com

Another useful option is --workdir. It allows to change the working directory
before execute the command.

$ yakuake-session --workdir /tmp -e ls

yakuake-session has many other options that were shown in help.

$ yakuake-session --help

Usage: yakuake-session [options] [args]

Options:
  --help                    Show help about options.
  --workdir <dir>           Set the initial working directory of the new tab to 'dir'
  --hold, --noclose         Do not close the session automatically when the command ends.
  -p <property=value>       Change the value of a profile property (only for KDE 4).
  -e <cmd>                  Command to execute.
  -q                        Do not open yakuake window.

Arguments:
  args                      Arguments passed to command.


$ yakuake-session --name "session01"

sets the name of the sesion tab (only set up and tested on dbus)

very useful for things like autoloading all your servers by named tab ie:

#!/bin/bash                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
notify-send -t 1000 "opening sessions to all Servers" "Sessions being opened to servers"
yakuake-session --name "webserver" -e ssh -- admin@webserver.com
yakuake-session --name "dbserver" -e ssh -- admin@dbserver.com
notify-send -t 1000 "sessions opened" "Sessions opened"


Action in Dolphin
-----------------

Dolphin provides the action "Open terminal here" that opens a Konsole terminal
emulator in the specified folder. This behavior can be changed to use Yakuake
instead of Konsole coping ServiceMenus/konsolehere.desktop into
~/.kde/share/kde4/services/ServiceMenus/. If we do not want to change the
behavior of "Open terminal here", we can copy ServiceMenus/yakuakehere.desktop
into ~/.kde/share/kde4/services/ServiceMenus/ to add the new action "Open
yakuake here" to Dolphin.


Quick Access Menu
-----------------

Konsole Profiles is a Plasma widget that allows to open a new terminal window,
configured according to a select profile, and automatically execute a command
in it. We can get something similar but for Yakuake using the QuickAccess
widget. We only have to make a directory and setup a QuickAccess widget
instance to use it as origin (I also like to disable the browsing). Then we
add some "Link to Application" to that directory, such that each one use
yakuake-session to create a new Yakuake session and to execute the command
that we want.

The file examples/username@example.com.desktop contains an example that launch
a ssh client in a new Yakuake session.


-- Jesús Torres <aplatanado@gulic.org>
